DOCS-3374: Revise rounding rule (#2397)
MultiSafepay/docs: content/developer/rounding-rule.md

---
title: Rounding rule
category: 62962df622e99600810c117d
slug: 'rounding-rule'
order: 90
hidden: false
---

MultiSafepay applies the following rounding rule when calculating the total cost of an order:

> 1. Calculate the total cost of all items in the shopping cart (excluding VAT). Multiply the `unit_price` of each item by the `quantity` of the item. Add the results together, and round to 2 decimal places: Items total.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Calculate the total cost of all items in the shopping cart (excluding VAT): Multiply the `unit_price` of each item by the `quantity` of the item, then add the results together, rounding to 2 decimal places= Items total.
```

> 2. Calculate the total VAT for all items in the cart (if applicable). Multiply the total cost of each item by the VAT rate. Add the results together, and round to 2 decimal places: VAT total.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Calculate the total VAT for all items in the cart (if applicable): Multiply the total cost of each item by the VAT rate, then add the results together, rounding to 2 decimal places= VAT total.
```

3. Add the items total to the VAT total: Cart total.

> **Note:** when rounding to 2 decimal places, [round half up](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rounding#Round_half_up).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** When rounding to 2 decimal places, always [round half up](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rounding#Round_half_up).
```

Apply the same rounding rule in your integration to ensure:

- The order `amount` matches the cart total.

> - Payment pages display the correct (sub)totals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Payment pages](/docs/payment-pages/) display the correct (sub)totals.
```

> - E-Invoices to your customers match your records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [E-Invoices](/docs/e-invoicing/) to your customers match your records.
```

> 27.5229357798 + 33.0578512396 + 4.5412844037 = **65.1220714231**
> 65.1220714231 = **65.12**

> 2. Calculate the total VAT for all items in the cart (if applicable). Multiply the total cost of each item by the VAT rate. Add the results together, and round to 2 decimal places: VAT total.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Calculate the total VAT for all items in the cart (if applicable): Multiply the total cost of each item by the VAT rate, then add the results together, rounding to 2 decimal places= VAT total.
```
